*Pew Pew, Die* is the martian equivalent of Rock, Paper, Scissors
typically played using a specially marked cube often passed through the
ages from one family generation to the next.

![detail](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pew-pew-hand.png)

The game piece, often known
as a pyramid die (or colloquially a “pew-pew die” whereby the game's
name is derived) is marked on each side with one or two triangular
symbols, each named uniquely:

## Pew Pew Die Details|

 Face | Name 
 :---: | :---
 ![puppy](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-puppy.png) | puppy
 ![philosopher](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-philosopher.png) | philosopher
 ![brute](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute.png) | brute
 ![minotaur](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-minotaur.png) | <strike>minotaur</strike>
 ![catoblepas](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-catoblepas.png) | catoblepas
 ![juggernaut](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-juggernaut.png) | juggernaut

The power ranking for each of the die faces starts with the puppy and
ends with the juggernaut. What this means for gameplay is explained
below.

Gameplay
--------

Each players starts with the pew-pew die in his or her hand and mixes it
around in their palm before starting. Facing one another, the players
open their hands revealing the die faces. Each player can then twist
their die up to 90-degrees either clockwise or counter-clockwise to
orient the faces into a desired attack and defense configuration. The
players then determine the result of the initial round and then make
moves from this initial setup to conclude the game. For each round
thereafter a player's die can only be changed in the following ways:

-   A die can be 90-degrees clockwise or counter-clockwise
-   or a die can be flipped onto its front (the side closest the
    opponent), left or right sides

Play proceeds for as many rounds as the players desire, up to a
pre-determined number of wins -- typically three works best. Details of
attack and defensive mechanics and “life-points” follows.

*Pew Pew, Die* Combat Mechanics {#pew-pew-die-combat-mechanics}
-------------------------------

The motivation behind the original creation of the pew-pew die faces has
been lost to the rust-red dust-bin of Martian history. However, the
layout is interesting from a game perspective in that rather than only
signifying a magnitude of power it can also represent a **direction of
force** -- and this is the basis of how *Pew Pew, Die* is played and
scored.

Take for example for the brute pew-pew die, shown below:

![brute east](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-e.png)

The brute above is projecting 3-points of power eastward. On the other
hand:

![brute south](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-s.png)

The brute above projects the same power southward.

Now, observe two pew-pew dice oriented in such a way that their power
projects toward each other:

 Left player | Right player
 :---: | :---:
 ![L](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-e.png) | ![R](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-w.png)

In the game of *Pew Pew, Die* such a condition would be a draw because
both dice project the maximum amount of power that each can take toward
one another -- this is a condition of mutual destruction. However,
observe a different layout:

 Left player | Right player
 :---: | :---:
 ![L](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-e.png) | ![R](<http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-e.png)

The dice above are both facing in the same direction, but only one (the
left-most) projects its power toward the other. However, this condition
is also a draw because when the flat end of a triangle is oriented
toward an opponent die then that is what is known as a **shield**.
Therefore, the right-most die absorbs all 3 points of power projected
from the left-most.

However, often in *Pew Pew, Die* the orientations and power protections
are asymmetric. A simple example is the case where a die is facing
entirely in the wrong direction:

 Left player | Right player
 :---: | :---:
 ![L](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-e.png) | ![R](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute.png)

As shown, the right-most die is facing in a northward direction neither
projecting power at its opponent nor presenting a shield. Therefore, in
this case the left-most die will win this battle as its 3-points of
power are sufficient to destroy the other die.

### Attack and Defense

You'll notice that many of the die faces have two triangle on them.
These faces provide a combination of attack and defensive capabilities,
as shown below:

![jugg east](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-juggernaut-e.png)

Depending on the orientation of the above juggernaut in relation to an
opponent will determine its offensive and defensive capabilities. For
example:

 Left player | Right player
 :---: | :---:
 ![L](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-juggernaut-e.png) | ![R](http://images.fogus.me/games/pyramid-games/images/pd-brute-w.png)

The dice above are oriented in such a way that the left-side die
projects 3-points of power toward the right-side. However, the left-side
die has a 2-point shield facing the attack thus absorbing 2-points of
power leaving only 1-point remaining, not enough to destroy it. At the
same time, the left-side die projects 3-points of power which is enough
to destroy the right-side die. Therefore, the left-side die wins this
match-up.

### Life points {#life-points}

The life-points for a given face are defined as follows:

-   The total life-points of a face always, correspond to the attacking
    triangle
-   If the face is oriented only in a defensive posture then the shield
    defines the life-points
-   If the face is oriented perpendicular to an attack then the triangle
    that is near to the attacking triangle defines the life-points

Enjoy!

External Links and Inspiration(s)
---------------------------------

-   The elegant [Bushi Shogi][] is the main motivation for *Pew Pew,
    Die*

  [Bushi Shogi]: http://www.kolumbus.fi/geodun/bushi/bushi.htm
  
